I left school at 14, I went to a primary school, secondary modern school in Markham.
I left school at 15 years of age, I was 15 in September and I started in the mines in 1962,
and I started in the mines Christmas Eve of the same year.
I started underground, did my training, went to college, did some training,
and then I went to work on the face with some men. Within a year I broke my foot.
I was still only, I think perhaps just coming up to 16 or 16.
How did you break your foot?
I was what they call withdrawing, getting timbers out,
whole timbers out that had been supported in the roof and letting it go out.
I cut this one up with an axe and actually the stone fell and it rolled over and it went over main step,
it went straight over my steel choke up and into my main step.
The funny thing about it was that they took me straight to my house in the ambulance,
called my mother and said, do you want to see him before we take him out?
I was frightened to death. Yeah, they did that.
Then I came back, I worked on the face for a while and then I was asked to go to work with the splices.
So I went to work with the splices and I worked with the splices for about two years.
I was a striker, when they were cutting steel ropes I was the guy with the armour, the sledge.
While doing that, a piece of steel went up through my eye and I was in hospital again and I was still only young.
They took me, the eye was alright, they saved the eye, everything was okay.
The thing about that was that they took, as soon as I did it,
they sent goggles down the mine for everybody who was using anything that afternoon, everything went alright.
So I did that and then that was okay.
I worked for a few years in the mines and decided that I'd go out to the mine site.
I was in roads working and repairing and on the coal.
Then I went outside to work and I worked for Wyn's Heavy Aldridge in Newport, massive company, big, carried heavy stuff.
I was a stiersman, finished there, went to work in a foundry and I thought, no I don't like this, I'm going back to the mines.
So I went back into the mines, went to Markham, Colleray and was a repairer and I worked on a coal.
Then the manager came to see me one day and said, I heard you were with the ventilation officers in Auckland when you were training.
I said, yeah, I'd like to train to be a ventilation officer here.
So I did and I went and I passed the exams and everything and I think they were pretty good and I worked on doing that.
Then my marriage broke up after a couple of years and the manager stopped my lamp one day and said to me,
listen Glen, there's a place in the Rhondda, in Dinas, in the mines rescuization, full time.
If you're interested in going, I'll put your name forward.
So I did and that's where I went to and I was there for about 10 years and then I had an accident with my leg, not underground or anything,
but I hurt my foot and somebody came to see me and it wasn't fair to go down there, then a problem with walking.
If I had to carry somebody, I would be a liability in case something went wrong.
So I decided it was time to go out.
So then they came and they offered me redundancy and I took the redundancy and went outside.
Since then I've started up my own business and I'm still working today.
Did you enjoy working in the mines?
Loved it, absolutely loved it.
It was hard work and it was dangerous work, but I like to come regularly.
I've been around everywhere and there is nowhere that I have seen a camaraderie like that.
I would imagine the only thing near that would be a soldier.
I wouldn't think anybody, I've never seen it anywhere else.
It was kind of you were all in the same position.
We were all in the same position and if somebody, if he was working in the face and somebody had a piece of rough ground, it was bad,
then you would finish your work and go and help him and the other blokes would come and help him and make it good.
He was watching out for one another all the time.
That was the thing. It was good.
They looked out for you and that was good.
I really enjoyed that camaraderie.
Proper teamwork as well.
Yes, it was. It was always teamwork.
Were you taught teamwork? Was it just a natural thing?
It was a natural thing, I think, that it just carried on.
I went to work in the foundry and this is why I finished in the foundry, was that sometimes it was aluminium we were using
and sometimes you put an ingot in and if there was water or it was cold, he would explore and go up in the air.
So everybody would run and whatever.
I went up one day and some of this molten aluminium spurted over and went down into his boots.
Nobody, but nobody, stopped working and just kept on and he was screaming on the floor.
My brother was doing brass and I was doing aluminium. Only me and him ran two miners.
I put my notes in the afternoon and my brother and we both finished. I said, I don't know what you would be like that.
There was no camaraderie at all and I was in Cavalier and I never forget that.
I really finished me towards that. I finished that day.
So there was no looking out for each other?
Not at all.
Were in the mines?
Yes, in the mines. If somebody got injured, they were on a stretcher and they were taken out.
People were there and they were always reassuring them.
Was it always in the back of your mind that you could get injured any day or was it good knowing that you did get injured?
Every miner knows every day. He's always looking out for things you knew it was instinctive to know that there was danger there all of the time.
If it wasn't the roof, it could be a journey coming or it could be a walker moving.
There were many, many different things underground that could catch you out.
But I think miners were quite vulnerable. Although we did get caught out, we did get killed and were some people.
There were some of these things.
So moving on to your first injury with your foot, you mentioned you will steal toe cap boots.
Yes.
Unfortunately, your accident missed the steel bits.
It went into my toe cap and broke into my toe cap.
How were you injured? Was it a permanent injury? Did your employer give you any kind of compensation or did they help you to get back into work?
I was just on the sick end.
Did you get paid on the sick end?
Yes, I got paid until my foot was okay and then I went back to work.
You were able to go back down in the sick end.
I was only young and I was very, very young. Today the kids are a lot older, I think, and advanced than we were.
I remember going down and I remember when it hurt so much. It was my first break.
I had tears in my eyes and I remember the bloke I was working with, Tommy, Tommy Grasses.
He looked at me and he said, is that a tear in your eye, boy?
I'll never forget it. I said, no.
He said to me, because you're a man now and men don't cry, you're a miner.
I remember him telling me that and I didn't cry after. He'd do it a lot, but let me tell you, I wanted to.
Fifteen-year-old is a child, because you were a child at that time.
That was the way it was. It was okay after. I had compensation. We used to get compensation.
They'd pay your wages and all of this. I didn't get any money for it because they broke my foot.
So you had sick pay?
Sick pay and everything like that. They paid me. I went back to work and that was it. That was the way it was.
How long were you off?
Oh, you know, approximately a month.
And they paid you full wage or was it a lesser wage?
They paid me full wage.
They paid me full my year.
When you had the accident with your eye and you mentioned after that that everybody had goggles, how did it go from not having goggles to having goggles?
Was it simply your accident?
Well, the goggles must have been there. They must have been in the colliery because they were straight down the mine.
They just didn't give me any goggles. I didn't know anything about it. They just closed my eyes and went straight through.
So you think the goggles were probably available?
Yeah, but they never...
Did the other miners wear them?
No, not many people were wearing my goggles at all.
Right, but after your accidents?
Yeah, they were totally having to wear them on.
Was it a case of if you don't wear them and you get injured then you won't get sick pay?
I don't know. I don't know what they did but I know that I got... from my eye. I know they did it and then I had to go for a board with my eye.
They gave me so much for life. I can't remember how much it was. They paid me up.
So they gave you compensation?
They gave me compensation for my eye, yeah. They did have compensation for my eye.
Were you paid sick pay as well?
I was paid when I was off, yeah. But then they paid me a couple hundred pounds I think. It was like perhaps about £300.
Which was a lot of money.
It was a lot of money then, but yeah, and I had that. And then I supposed to have had a pension for it.
And then the government came in and said, no, no, anybody under 3% or whatever is... you know, they stopped that pension. You've got to have 7%.
It didn't matter, but that was the way it went.
But you had compensation. Did you have lasting damage in your eye or did it leave you right?
No, no, no. It hasn't affected my eyesight at all. They were worried about cataracts, but I never even had a cataract.
But it was the steel span and the corneas of the eye, the covering of the eye, and spread it, but it stayed there.
So they had to turn it and pull it back out. Yeah, not nice.
But yeah, they did that and they put two stitches in it. As you can see if you look, they put two stitches in my eye.
And then after a couple of weeks, they said to me, you're going to go on with your eye, you need stitches out.
So I went down to the theatre and I drew the stitches out and that's the worst pain I've ever had in my life.
I passed out about three times. They just picked it off with a tweezers and pulled it, but it was pulling it off, you know.
Pulling it out through the eye. So that wasn't nice, but yeah, I passed it about three times. I don't remember that.
But yeah, that was the way it was, you know.
But you were a man.
I was a man. No, I didn't cry.
You'd listened to your father who advised you when you were 15 not to cry.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. He taught me how to cry.
Yeah, that's the way it was, you know.
But I think when I was in the mines since coming out of the mines, I had tests for my hearing aid, for my ears and I like.
And they said, oh yeah, you've got a little bit of hearing loss.
And I went about 12 months ago and they said it's a little bit progressive and my wife said you better go because you're not listening to me.
And I went and I went and I got apparently a severe hearing loss.
But I can hear you, you know, but it's too what it is, severe hearing loss in both ears.
And she said you had that for a long, long time.
Do you think it's to do with working in mines?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. It was boring, boring holes and I know boring Europeans, it was, yeah.
So if it was eight or ten holes, you know, and six inch, six foot long, you know, boring that.
And he had, if anything, then with that and he said well you heard it straight after he had trouble with my hands.
And I went to have an operation, I had to go and see about my hands.
And I saw a doctor who said to me, do you usually work in a mines, do you?
And I said yeah.
So you go away and get it?
I said no.
He said no.
He said did they test you for it?
I said no, not really, they just let me in.
He said well you've got a carpal tunnel in both hands, he said and that's from vibrating.
So I did a conversation for that, you know, as well, with my hands.
From the coal board?
From the government.
So right finger is another name for?
No, no, no, white finger and carpal tunnel are a different thing.
Oh right, so what's a white finger?
White finger, your fingers go numb, you know, they will go white everywhere.
And it's something in your hand for a while.
And then it goes white, that's what you think, like white finger.
So it gets very painful, it's not nice.
But what I had is your veins, they twist around your veins, sitting with whatever.
So they had to operate on both my hands to get them right.
They're not right now, but you know, I get penchant for it, so yeah, that's okay.
You know, I can put up with that.
That's the thing, you know.
So apart from your mishaps, were you aware of any other accidents or anybody with any kind of disability working in the mine?
Was there anybody who had lost a limb or?
Yeah, I remember my own dad died at 48 with emphysemia and they said it was nothing to do with the cold, but it was, it worked out, it is.
Something to do with it.
But when I went to put up a conversation with my mother, it was too long ago, he didn't live long enough, he only died at 48.
So where did that go?
I don't know whether, you know, she should have got the compensation, not him, but they never paid her anything.
I thought that was really, really bad and I've heard a lot of stories like that since.
Yeah, I remember a bloke called Ronnie Bishop.
I think he caught his foot in the Panzer chain.
He was like, he worked with a limp or one, he still worked underground, he couldn't work on a face or anything anymore.
But he still worked there, he worked on a corrie.
There were lots of hellas and bad accidents, you know.
And was allowances made?
Oh, they were, yeah, they were definitely allowances made for people, you know.
And even too, I won't mention names, but when I worked in A Corrie, there was a man there, I would say he had autism.
I would think autism.
Norah, a lovely bloke, really good.
But he really could make radios.
He'd make a radio app from scratch, a really good guy.
I'll never forget it, but he was so, if you talked to him, he was not with it, you know.
But the manager gave him a job cleaning the toilet.
So I always remember, he went for a job and the manager said, yes, you can have a job.
He couldn't put him underground, no way, he'd be too dangerous, couldn't, you know.
But yeah, I always remember him and he had this going and one day I was with the manager walking down because we were going together to see something.
He said to me, what's that noise, Glen?
I said, what noise?
That noise, he said.
And I said, oh, it's the radio, it was music playing, you know.
Where's he coming from?
I said, toilets.
So he walked over to the toilets.
And I always remember him and he said, this fella was in there.
And he said to him, why have you got that on?
Why is that on in you now?
He said, I'm going to do my engineering work.
And he said to him, I refer to him as Mr. Man, I don't want to get this guy in.
He said, it's on, he said, because you told me that I had a very important job.
And you told me that I was to lag the pipes if there was any icing and things to make sure there wasn't any bursts.
And he said, yes.
I said, I'm listening if there's going to be any snow.
So the manager said, OK, he said.
He walked up to Tony and he said, it's time for me to finish now, Glen.
He said, isn't it June?
It was the middle of June, he was boiling up.
He just passed on his pipe, he walked away and he just said, oh, leave him go.
It was funny, but you know, that's what they were like, you know.
They weren't all bad.
Managers weren't all bad.
I found some of them really good, you know.
Some of them were hard.
But yeah, good ones, you know.
Was there many people with learning disabilities?
I didn't see a lot, but I remember him really well.
Not everybody, people.
Not that he was diagnosed.
Yeah, not that he was diagnosed.
Let's say then, some people weren't suitable to go underground.
Or to work on the surface in certain areas.
Where you have machinery and other safety if you want to.
But they did work in other areas, you know.
I mean, they could help on the timber yard.
You know, with supervision they could work different places, you know.
Yeah, there were other people in the mines with disabilities, you know.
Do you know if they were paid the same or were they paid for the job?
Well, they were paid the surface rate.
Whatever the surface rate was going, they were paid exactly the same.
You know, it doesn't matter whatever.
I mean, they were paid the same.
There weren't any discrepancies to my knowledge anyway.
Yeah, there were some really good people about them.
Some people who understood that there were difficulties with some people.
And it was good to see.
And I noticed that miners were very tolerant of this.
And always nice to these people.
I treated them not as less, but as equals.
And always laughing.
How are you going?
So, you know, it was good.
That was good.
I like that.
The more I talk to people, the more positive things are.
Even though it's a really hard job.
But the camaraderie, that word, is mentioned every single time you interview somebody, isn't it?
The camaraderie and the teamwork.
It does sound like such a good place to work apart from the danger and the lies and everything.
It does seem very difficult.
It was hard and it was horrible in places.
And he's the same.
I've heard people saying, you know, you're miners, you're money for a rope and all this nonsense.
But when you take him to the camaraderie, like I had an uncle who said,
you're getting too much money, you people are always on strike.
And all this.
He said to him, well, come with me then.
I took him to the pithead and I raged to the manager to take him down.
He looked over the top like, I'll be studying going on ahead.
And I said, come on, we haven't started yet.
That's only going down.
But no, he wouldn't go down.
He changed his mind a bit quick.
But it isn't, you know.
It's not about that.
It's about...
But everything, you know, that was good.
There was positives, you know.
There were positives.
And the positives were good.
Yeah, we didn't get a lot of money in the beginning.
But I remember, I think it was £22.50 they paid us.
£12.80. £18 was in the second.
Yeah, yeah.
That was a top of £18 second.
When I started, I think I was on...
£6 a week.
What's that?
You went morning, you started down below.
I went morning, you went...
I went £6 a week, I think I started on about £6 a week.
But yeah, you know, I mean, the Tardic kids, they only go one.
One half of the money, don't they?
And the times have changed and things have changed, the values have changed.
Yeah, it was, you know.
It was hard.
I really enjoyed my time in the rescue service.
Because, you know, the camaraderie there was really, you know, it was a god.
Really good.
We saw some things, done some things.
Saw some things.
Worked together regularly.
Had a laugh and I know, you know, I can always remember.
One of the funniest things of all that.
Nobody liked going into the old drift mines.
You know, it was shut because they were full of cold water, you know.
And everything, and when they went in, they were dating in bits and pieces, falling.
And you ought to be careful, you know.
And we had a call one night, and I'll never forget it.
So anyway, we ran up the station and got up the station.
And the boss said I was a volunteer, as he said, to go into an old drift mine.
So everybody started to sort their off, you know.
Walk away like he said.
Come on now, boys.
And it was a 26-year-old woman, I think she was 26, that stripped off naked, took her two kids.
And stripped off naked and went into this drift.
Walked into this drift mine.
But you couldn't get on the band, right?
Nobody could get on the band.
Who was Jock?
They were up there, but gee, apparently the kids had run away.
And she had backtracked.
I don't know how right this is, but I know the army, everybody was looking, but nobody could find her anyway.
But I think she had backtracked and gone in a vehicle and disappeared.
With somebody.
End of story.
I have heard she's been seen since.
But I think if they ever caught you, she'd be doing a jail term because it cost thousands and thousands of pounds to turn out a team and get everybody looking for her.
And I know how her boys dived in there, you know.
So they risked their lives.
Well, they would have, yeah, because when you go into somewhere like that, I mean, apparently when they went in and walked around the corner, there was a ledge.
Now she wouldn't have been able to see that in the dark.
I suppose she would have walked into that.
But it was so cold, she would have gone unconsciously.
But they went, we had some officers there who used to do the skid diving, you know.
And they went in and they never found anything, you know, when she went in there.
But yeah, you know, how dangerous just to...
So what happened to the children?
They went to sleep with their grandad and their grandma, I think.
And I don't know what happened.
I did hear she had a boyfriend up north or something, and this is what had happened.
She'd gone in, to make like if she'd gone in and died.
Oh, right.
But she'd backtracked and gone in a circle.
That's what I heard.
I don't know whether it happened.
I don't know.
That's what we were told.
But yeah, but they were good men to work with.
Some of them I worked with were in Six Bells explosion, you know.
Some of them were in Aberfan.
They were all from different things, you know.
What was the worst kind of rescue mission, the deadliest rescue mission you went on?
I never went on many deadly ones.
But I went on more or less in Bryn Llyw.
We went there one morning and there was a fire.
And on the way, they said it was...
We'd listened to the radio, you know, and it was like port control, port number one.
And they were telling him that this fire now is timber and coal, you know, spontaneous combustion, right?
Then he went from coal and then he went into belt.
And he went from that to being coal, to belt and oil burning.
You know, and we thinking, oh, here we go.
But when we got there, there was two inspectors there, Gifford, I think, and he was, I'm not sure, Gifford.
And I remember the one.
One was a coal board and one was the union guy.
And we went into it and Lachy were the one side fight, you know.
And we were the other side with the smoke coming towards us.
So we were in there and we were closing down, you know.
And he said, can you see a door?
And we said, yeah.
He said, what's the cover like?
And there was nothing there at all, no timber.
It all burned away.
There was no timber down, so we had to put steel over the top, which is a no-no, you know, because steel slips, not steel, do it.
But anyway, we put it there and I was with a fellow, a school field, and he collapsed, me and him, it was all right.
But then we got in and we eventually got past this place, into where this door was, you know.
And he said, what is it like?
And we said, well, it's red hot, like.
He said, well, cool it down, you know.
So we cooled it down and he said, well, go in there.
He said, it's a powder magazine, which was, you know.
And we went in and he said, right, can you get, so he said, we're the captain, can you undo something and tell us what it's like?
So I don't know what happened, but I know some of it was sweating and whatever, and we didn't know.
It was daily jacks, daily, but all different types of stuff, wasn't it?
And he said, so tell us then, what's it like, Leo, did this go in?
He said, I don't know.
He said, I've never, ever, never, ever had it in this state before.
He said, he could have gone puff, he said, or he could have left the top of the mountain, you know, but I'm asking him to bring it out, like.
But we did bring it out, you know, sorry.
But I think the best one I ever went on was up the partag.
And we was up there and we went in.
And these two guys, they tried a machine from the top.
They were in a private mine.
And we worked out the length they were in.
And there was no air going in there, but we could talk to them because there was a phone line in there.
And there was two blocks trapped.
And when we got there, I always remember the mother, the wives and mothers were there, and the kids, and the kids were saying, go give it a go, you know, really, really upsetting.
They never were allowed to come too near, I suppose.
And everybody assumed they saw the vehicle, all the rescue boys, they'd be all over, you know, in two seconds.
They were going to wave a magic wand and everything, but it's not that easy, you know.
And there wasn't much hope to getting them out.
But on digging in, you know, the teams, the different successive teams had worked.
And apparently their own men had dug a lot, you know.
And there was no way, you know, they'd distance in.
But apparently we hit the journey in the road.
And we went at the site of the journey and got them out.
They were digging out, we got them out.
So we did get them out.
Well, that was a nice one, you know, that was a lovely one, you know.
But yeah, it was nasty.
The first one I went on was my own Caldry marker.
There was a fire in the shaft and I had to go down on top of the cage with another rescue man.
And they said, you can't put any harnesses on it because you've got to wear your armor.
So we had to stand on the top and he just slung a chain around and we went down.
I had to walk across this narrow, narrow thing, frightening to death.
But there was, yeah, there was other things.
But yeah, that was the way it was, you know.
It was good and I enjoyed it.
I enjoyed my time there.
I liked the boys I worked with, you know, the officers were good.
We had good fun together.
It was a good community because we all lived.
We had our own tennis courts.
There was a training pool lesson.
We had our own swimming pool.
We had our own rack, rack nation room where there was no cup of tea, table.
And we had table tennis, I think, and all different things like that, you know.
We used to do all these things.
They had tennis courts and we used to do all of that.
But when we lived there, you know, bumping out, we did everything ourselves, you know, and everything, you know.
But we would challenge the local rugby team or the local cricket team, you know, to play our women.
I remember that.
And then they came down.
We played them in rugby.
Well, I mean, I think all our boys were 35, 40 and they were about 20, you know.
We had three steps, but it was good, you know.
But we said to them, you ought to come and play our women and cricket, you know.
So they said, yeah, right, oh, we'll play them.
And I said, oh, we got a cracking cricket team.
So they came down, I was fully expecting them to see all these women coming down, you know.
It was all the boys dressed up when there was women, like, you know.
But the funniest thing is, this one Alan, he was going away the next day to Benidorm or somewhere like that.
Poor old boys dead, you know.
But I remember him and we played and he had a strap thing on.
And of course, when we changed, he had straps and bras that could be used, you know.
He said, I'm going to go away, you know.
Oh, the sun.
He had a sun tan of a bra.
Like, he had a bra and everything.
So everybody laughed at him.
But that was what he was.
But good, good, good.
And good camaraderie.
You know, when, if something was on, one of the boys would go and knock on the women and tell them what was going on.
Everything's OK.
You never say, oh, no, it's a big fire.
You know, it was just without a safety day.
Ah, the boys were all right, they're great, you know.
But I can remember going on one early in the morning.
And when I came back at six o'clock until Sunday morning, I think I came back at six o'clock in the evening.
We'd gone about four or five in the morning.
I came back about six.
And my wife and children were there, you know.
And they had that dinner and they wouldn't eat until I came home.
And it was, you know, it must have been horrific for them, you know.
But, yeah, I mean, you know, when you think of it, it had happened by the time we got there mostly.
I know sometimes it could be a bit scary, but it had happened and was all over by the time we got there.
If it was an explosion, it had happened by the time we got there.
We had to go and pick the bits, you know, so the things happened.
It always picked bits happened, you know.
But mostly, yes, we'd gone to a fire or something like that.
But, yeah, that's the way it was, you know.
It was a good money being on the rescue team.
It was good money.
But, you see, having said that, you'd be on crew from eight o'clock in the morning.
Until, say, half past four.
And then you'd be on crew from the time you finished.
Till morning you'd be on call.
And you'd be doing that four days a week or five days a week sometimes, you know.
One of the chefs was 24 hours.
The fireman was 24 hours.
You'd be on in the morning, you know, you'd go home.
Somebody'd come and relieve you for an hour and you'd be back on.
You know, you'd do it.
So that's the way it was.
But, you know, it was a lot of waiting time, a lot of time in the house.
You couldn't go out because if something happened, you had to move.
And they did pride themselves on quick going out there, you know.
Really, I think it was about just over a minute from bed.
You know, and our vehicle was leaving the yard.
So you had to be quick, you know.
Yeah, it was good.
I enjoyed it.
Felly, ond unrhyw beth oedd ychwanegol eich bod yn ei ddweud amdano?
Rwy'n meddwl,
nid oes angen i'w ddweud am yr hyn a'r meddwl.
Rwy'n mynd i'w ddweud i'r arian yn ysgol, a dweud i'w ddweud.
Ond nid oes angen i'w ddweud am y meddwl, am'r arian.
Mae'r arian yn y gallai ei ddweud amdano.
Ond dweud, wow, yw'n dweud, roedd yna oedd yn ddifrif.
Mae'n ddifrif.
Mae'r arian yw'n dweud amdano.
A allan y rôl, roedd yn ddifrif.
Mae'r ffordd yn ddifrif.
Mae'r arian yn ddifrif.
Rydw i'n gobeithio hynny y mae'n pryd yn gallu gweld eisiaujaswynt bodies yn f другихion.
Rydw i rywun yn 오 Mars.
R uda f certified f الج Hill, gyda'r yr hyn.
C椅d i gael de Bradyn cerdd, yr y chan y bobl yn y nul.
Mae'n angen gweld at nesaf.
Felly fyd jo beth yr oeddehyr yn wahanol.
Yn o Megaforău Newydd,
ddod yn bwyno dda olaf JE e. Mae'n dros i'r hynезж, anti'wrian na gydolion yearmhellol aetro
dw i'n ddweud crash. Wel polygon tエctolion pob na of o об leaking o'di, toughern,
pas iawn, i'w lead ar y swyddog a dynnu adleda label o anodd oал, ei gweithio o beidiynau
yno, yna rydw i'n gwybod, a dwi'n meddwl bod hynny'n dda i fod yn
iawn, iawn, mae'n rhaid i bawb i'w gydag, ond iawn, dwi ddim yn mynd i ddweud
am ymlaen, a'n dweud am ymlaen, dwi ddim yn cael ymlaen, ac roedden nhw'n
gwneud ymlaen rwyf yn dweud, iawn, roedden nhw'n dweud, mae'n dweud
beth yw'n gweithio'n dda, dwi ddim yn dweud, ymlaen, ymlaen, ymlaen, ymlaen
roedden nhw'n cael ymlaen, roedden nhw'n dweud, ymlaen,
a dwi ddim yn dweud beth yw'n gweithio'n dda, a phan o bobl
dweud, ymlaen, yn y pethau hynny, mae'n dweud, ymlaen, ymlaen,
ond dyna'r hyn, dwi ddim yn gallu ei ddweud, dwi'n dweud hynny,
sut yna'r hyn sefydlu, dyw fewb o bach,
dwi'n gwybod eimiad wishy.
Felly n hover o drei, beth'm gwybod oddo,
feth o ddwyfion, penny o ddwyfion.
Mae'n touteipe i d landscape ac mae'n gwerthion.
Dy200 mewn i drinio Retail highway aualt.
iawn i pap protagonist onde bu,